Enrique Rubio
The Challenge
AI is moving faster than
organizations can adapt.

Leaders feel pressure but lack clarity on where and how to start.

Transformation is expected without clear ownership or mandate.

People feel uncertainty when they should feel capable.

Meet Ada
How Can I Help You?
Named after Ada Lovelace, the world's first computer programmer. She's here to help you explore how Enrique can support your organization.

Hi, I'm Ada!
I'm inspired by Ada Lovelace — a visionary who believed technology should amplify human creativity. Ask me anything about Enrique's speaking topics and how he can help your organization thrive in the age of AI.

What topics does Enrique speak about?
How does Enrique work with organizations?
What makes Enrique's approach different?
Ask Ada a question...

:: Algorithm_Output
Strategic translation into action.
// I don't just talk about the future. I help organizations turn AI into real operating change.

Clarifies what AI changes in strategy, work and leadership.

Helps leaders move from experimentation to real execution and AI operational excellence.

Builds readiness across capability, culture, and governance.

Connects AI adoption with operating models and work design.

:: Collaboration_Mode
I don't just speak.
I build with you.
> Inspiration is the starting point. Execution is the work.

> I partner with organizations to build real strategies, frameworks, and capabilities that hold up after the session ends.

> We don't just talk about the future. We build it together.

AI Tools & Frameworks
Practical frameworks leaders can use to integrate AI into real operations.

Custom Strategies
Tailored roadmaps that align AI adoption with strategy, structure, and goals.

Leadership & Team Workshops
Hands-on sessions where leaders and teams design solutions together.

Implementation Support
From pilot to scale: support that turns strategy into operating reality.

:: Speaking_Engagements
Keynotes & Talks
// Provocative, practical, and strategic talks for leaders navigating AI-driven change.

Staying Relevant
Future of Work
Workplace Transformation
Strategy to Execution
AI Leadership
AI Governance
01
Staying Relevant in the Age of AI
A strategic view of how AI reshapes value creation, operating models, and organizational relevance.

// Outcomes
Align leadership on AI direction and priorities
Understand the urgency of organizational adaptation
Clarify the path from experimentation to scale
// Audience & Format
Executive teams, boards, and transformation leaders

Duration to be discussed
Interested in this topic?

Inquire Availability
:: System_Modules
Topics that ignite action.
// Practical, provocative, and tailored to enterprise leadership challenges.

[Strategy]
01
Staying Relevant in the Age of AI
How AI reshapes value creation, competitive advantage, and organizational relevance.

[Future_Trends]
02
AI and the Future of Work
Moving beyond hype to understand real shifts in work, workflows, and operating models.

[Leadership]
03
Leading Enterprise Transformation with AI
How leadership teams align people, structure, and governance to drive AI adoption.

[Management]
04
Leadership in an AI-Augmented Organization
How leadership, decision-making, and accountability evolve when intelligence scales.

[Culture]
05
Building Organizational Capability
Building capability across people, processes, and systems in an AI-powered organization.

[Ethics]
06
Responsible AI at Scale
Designing governance, accountability, and trust into AI at enterprise scale.

[Execution]
07
From Strategy to Execution
Translating AI ambition into execution across functions, workflows, and business units.

[Operations]
08
AI Readiness and Operating Models
Redesigning operating models to support AI integration, scale, and resilience.

[Governance]
09
Governing AI in Complex Organizations
Managing risk, compliance, and accountability across regions, systems, and teams.

Engagement Formats
Keynotes
High-impact keynotes for senior leaders and enterprise audiences (virtual or in person).

Executive Briefings
Strategic deep-dives for executive teams and boards.

Fireside Chats
Moderated conversations focused on strategic, organizational, and leadership challenges.

Workshops
Interactive sessions to build organizational capability and execution roadmaps.

:: Network_Node_Admin
Founder of
Hacking HR
& The People and Culture Strategy Institute
> Initiating protocol: Enterprise learning and leadership activation...
> I don't just speak about the future. I build platforms, programs, and communities that help leaders turn change into capability at scale.

Hacking HR brings together senior leaders, practitioners, and organizations to explore how technology, work, and leadership are evolving—and how to respond with clarity and intent.

Global Leadership Community
Global Executive Events
Applied Learning Lab
Explore Hacking HR
bash — 80x24
$ ./start_hacking_hr.sh

Initializing core modules...

Loading future_of_work.js...

HACKING_HR
_Cursor blinking...

:: About_Enrique
The Human Behind
the Mission
> I'm Enrique Rubio. For over two decades, I've worked at the intersection of technology, leadership, and organizational transformation, helping leaders navigate how work actually changes in moments of disruption.

> As the founder of Hacking HR, I built a global leadership and learning ecosystem focused on the future of work, AI, and organizational change. My work is not about prediction—it's about helping organizations build the capability to respond.

> I don't just talk about change. I work with leaders to understand it, structure for it, and lead through it with clarity and intent.

My background spans engineering, public administration, and global leadership—bringing a systems lens to how organizations adapt in the age of AI.

Global Community Builder
Founder of Hacking HR, a global leadership and learning community focused on AI, work, and organizational transformation.

International Speaker
Keynotes and executive sessions delivered globally to senior leaders and enterprise audiences.

Thought Leader
Founder of the People and Culture Strategy Institute, focused on executive education and applied research.

AI & Future of Work Expert
Focused on translating AI strategy into execution, readiness, and governance at scale.

:: Beyond_Work
Ultrarunner &
Nature Lover
> When I'm not speaking or building communities, you'll find me on mountain trails pushing my limits as an ultrarunner. There's something about running 3 to 4 thousand miles a year through wilderness that teaches you about resilience, patience, and the power of one step at a time.

> Nature isn't just where I train—it's where I think. The clarity I find in forests and mountains directly informs my perspective on work and leadership. The best ideas often come when you're miles away from any screen.

Ultrarunner

50+ mile races

Nature Lover

Trails & Mountains

// trail_photo_1
// nature_photo_1
// ultrarunning_hero
Human-Centered,
AI-Powered

Coming Soon

New Book
:: Upcoming_Book
Human-Centered,
AI-Powered
A Strategic Leadership Playbook for the Age of AI

> The first strategic leadership playbook for building AI-ready organizations where AI becomes a core capability that accelerates performance—while leaders protect trust, accountability, and what makes work human.

> This book moves leaders beyond narrow conversations about AI tools and efficiency gains, developing their ability to lead systemic organizational redesign. It shows how to embed AI as a core organizational capability across work, workforce, culture, data, processes, governance, and technology.

> Through structured frameworks, real-world scenarios, and progressive exercises, readers actively build their own human-centered, AI-powered organizational blueprint.

//
Strategic Frameworks
//
Real-World Scenarios
//
Practical Exercises
:: Contact_Form
Book Enrique
// Tell us about your event. We usually respond within 24 hours.

Name *
Your name
Organization *
Company name
Email *
you@company.com
Event Date (Optional)
mm/dd/yyyy
Format
In-Person Keynote
Message *
Tell us about the audience, theme, and goals...
Send Inquiry
Enrique Rubio
Helping organizations stay relevant in the age of AI through workforce transformation and strategic HR leadership.

© 2025 Enrique Rubio. All rights reserved.
Navigation
Home
Speaking
About
Contact
Connect
LinkedIn
Hacking HR
Ada
Enrique's AI Inspiration


Hi there! I'm Ada, named after Ada Lovelace — the world's first computer programmer.

She inspires Enrique because she believed technology should amplify human creativity, not replace it.

That's exactly what Enrique talks about: helping organizations thrive in the age of AI while keeping people at the center.

I'm here to answer your questions about his speaking topics, availability, and help you explore if he's the right fit for your event.

Before we dive in, what's your name?
Enrique
Nice to meet you, Enrique! How can I help today?

Are you looking to:
• Explore a speaking topic for an event
• Get a quick AI strategy starter plan
• Learn about the Workplace Ecosystem or Strategic AI Leadership frameworks
• Talk through governance and responsible AI

If you share your goal, I can point you to the right framework or next steps.
tell me about enrique
I'm sorry, I had a brief hiccup. Could you repeat your question?